# Battery Revenue Optimization Project

## Overview

This project involves the development of a Python-based framework for analyzing and optimizing the revenue generated by battery energy storage systems. The analysis includes data preprocessing, revenue calculation using both basic and optimized strategies, and visualization of results. The primary dataset for this analysis is provided in the `input_data.csv` file.

## Files Description

### main.py
This is the central script where the entire analysis is executed. It integrates functions from other scripts in the project to preprocess data, calculate revenues, optimize battery usage, and generate visualizations.

### data_preprocessing.py
Contains the `preprocess_data` function. This script is responsible for cleaning the data and preparing it for analysis. The preprocessing steps include handling missing values, removing outliers, and ensuring data consistency.

### revenues.py
Includes the `calculate_basic_strategy_revenues` function. This script calculates revenues using the basic strategy, referred to as the 'boss strategy'. The function has been enhanced to track the state of charge of the battery, allowing for more realistic scenarios where charging and discharging can occur multiple times within a day.

### optimised_model.py
Hosts the `optimize_battery` function. This script simulates an alternative trading strategy that focuses on optimizing battery usage for improved efficiency and profitability. It utilizes linear programming to maximize revenue while considering various operational constraints.

### **vis_tool_dash.py**
   - Contains the `app` for the visualization tool. This script uses Dash to create interactive visualizations that help in understanding the analysis results.
   
### visualization.py
This script adds visualisation for comparison between baseline and optimised strategy. The visualisation is saved as a PNG file. 

## Data

- `input_data.csv`: The main dataset used in this project. This file contains the necessary data for the analysis and should be placed in the same directory as the Python scripts.

## Installation

To install the necessary dependencies, run:



### Data

- **input_data.csv**: The main dataset used in this project. This file contains the necessary data for the analysis and should be placed in the same directory as the Python scripts.


- pip install -r requirements.txt
